AoC_2022
================

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

This is my first year of AoC, and I’ve decided to use it to practice
with [nbdev](https://nbdev.fast.ai) to automatically generate modules
and [documentation](https://ctwardy.github.io/AoC_2022/) from my
notebooks.

I’ll probably evolve my organization as I go. I did Day 1 with a regular
python module and that made sense to put each day in its own folder with
data as `input.txt`. But I think with nbdev it makes sense to have the
usual `nbs` folder for all the notebooks, one per day. In that case I’ll
put the data in `data/dayX_input.txt`. Like so:

``` python
!ls ../data
```

    day2_input.txt day3_input.txt

## Explore

Please feel free to:

- [Browse the lovely documentation](https://ctwardy.github.io/AoC_2022/)
  automatically generated by nbdev, or
- [View the code](https://github.com/ctwardy/AoC_2022).

## How to use

Nbdev creates python modules from notebooks, so if you clone the repo
you can call exported functions using the `AoC_2022` package.

1.  Get the code. If using the GitHub CLI:

``` shell
gh repo clone ctwardy/AoC_2022
```

2.  Install the package locally so `AoC_2022` is in your namespace.

``` shell
pip install -e '.[dev]'
```

Then you can do something like this:

``` python
import AoC_2022.day2 as day2

with open("data/day2_input.txt") as f:
    data = [day2.rps_decode(x.strip()) for x in f.readlines()]
day2.score_strategy(data)
```

    13022

# Observations

## Day 1: Calorie Counting

Wait! It’s December already? OK, just write Python using nano and
commandline. That wasn’t so bad. I’m not fast, but it was
straightforward.

## Day 2: Rock Paper Scissors

OK, installed the new nbdev. Used `str.translate` to change from ABC to
RPS. In Part 2 that needed an extra step to look at the opponents move,
but strategy dictionary seemed an okay approach.

## Day 3: Rucksack Reorg

Learning more nbdev features like docments and code-folding. I think
docments make the function declaration slightly uglier, but the
generated docs are amazing. Worth it.

**Programming**: got to use `functools.reduce`.

**Nbdev**: Local docs were pretty easy. Spent *hours* troubleshooting on
GitHub. Docs didn’t like index.ipynb using `../data/` for file location.
Solved by making `nbs/data -> ../data` and then referring to `data/`.

## Day 4: Camp Cleanup

Was able to follow the Day 3 nbdev template. Solution was
straightforward, but all told still me a bit more than an hour. Hm. Over
90 minutes after adding this section to the README (index.ipynb). Nbdev
makes documentation tempting. That’s not necessarily a bad thing.

**Nbdev**: `nbdev_prep` caught a leftover day3 cell at the bottom of my
day4 notebook. Cool. But after fixing, the running preview still didn’t
have day4. But stopping and re-running did. Guess that’s a thing.

## Day5: Supply Stacks

This took me surprisingly long. I had the example parsed in 45 minutes,
but then realized `move()` would be easier with stacks, and iterating on
that entered a regress. Once the example ran, Part 1 followed with one
tweak, then Part 2 needed only a quick rewrite of `move()`.

**Nbdev**: GitHub CI still failed. (1) I had an unused `import numpy`
but my `settings.ini` didn’t declare a `numpy` dependency. I dropped the
import. (2) I had used 3.10 type hints like `int|str`. Bumped
`settings.ini` to specify 3.10. (3) But it still installed 3.9.15, which
now failed to satisfy `settings.ini`.
